=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

git-publish - Prepare and store patch revisions as git tags

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  git-publish [options]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

git-publish prepares patches and stores them as git tags for future reference.
It works with individual patches as well as patch series.  Revision numbering
is handled automatically.

No constraints are placed on git workflow, both vanilla git commands and custom
workflow scripts are compatible with git-publish.

Email sending and pull requests are fully integrated so that publishing patches
can be done in a single command.

Hook scripts are invoked during patch preparation so that custom checks or
test runs can be automated.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<--version>

Show program's version number and exit.

=item B<-h>

=item B<--help>

Show help message and exit.

=item B<--annotate>

Review and edit each patch email.

=item B<-b BASE>

=item B<--base=BASE>

Branch which this is based off (defaults to master).

=item B<--cc=CC>

Specify a Cc: email recipient.

=item B<--cc-cmd=CC_CMD>

Specify a command add whose output to add the Cc: email recipient list.  See L<git-send-email(1)> for details.

=item B<--edit>

Edit message but do not tag a new version.  Use this to draft the cover letter before actually tagging a new version.

=item B<--no-inspect-emails>

Do not prompt for confirmation before sending emails.

=item B<--inspect-emails>

Show confirmation before sending emails.

=item B<-n NUMBER>

=item B<--number=NUMBER>

Explicitly specify the version number (auto-generated by default).

=item B<--no-message>

=item B<--no-cover-letter>

Do not add a message.

=item B<-m>

=item B<--message>

=item B<--cover-letter>

Add a message.

=item B<-p PROFILE_NAME>

=item B<--profile=PROFILE_NAME>

Select default settings from the given profile.

=item B<--pull-request>

Tag and send as a pull request.

=item B<--subject-prefix=PREFIX>

Set the email Subject: header prefix.

=item B<--clear-subject-prefix>

Clear the per-branch subject prefix.  The subject prefix persists between
versions by default.  Use this option to reset it.

=item B<--setup>

Add git alias in ~/.gitconfig so that the "git publish" git sub-command works.

=item B<-t TOPIC>

=item B<--topic=TOPIC>

Set the topic name (defaults to current branch name).

=item B<--to=TO>

Specify a primary email recipient.

=item B<-s>

=item B<--signoff>

Add Signed-off-by: <self> to commits when emailing.

=item B<--notes>

Append the notes for the commit after the three-dash line.  See L<git-notes(1)>
for details.

=item B<--suppress-cc=SUPPRESS_CC>

Override auto-cc when sending email.  See L<git-send-email(1)> for details.

=item B<-v>

=item B<--verbose>

Show executed git commands (useful for troubleshooting).

=item B<--forget-cc>

Forget all previous Cc: email addresses.

=item B<--override-cc>

Ignore any profile or saved Cc: email addresses.

=item B<-R IN_REPLY_TO>

=item B<--in-reply-to=IN_REPLY_TO>

Specify the In-Reply-To: of the cover letter (or the single patch).

=back

=head1 DISCUSSION

=head2 Setup

Run git-publish in setup mode to configure the git alias:

  $ git-publish --setup

You can now use 'git publish' like a built-in git command.

=head2 Quickstart

Create a "topic branch" on which to do your work (implement a new feature or fix a bug):

  $ git checkout -b add-funny-jokes
  ...
  $ git commit
  ...
  $ git commit

Send a patch series via email:

  $ git publish --to patches@example.org --cc maintainer@example.org

Address code review comments and send a new revision:

  $ git rebase -i master
  ...
  $ git publish --to patches@example.org --cc maintainer@example.org

Refer back to older revisions:

  $ git show add-funny-jokes-v1

This concludes the basic workflow for sending patch series.

=head2 Storing patch revisions

To store the first revision of a patch series:

  $ git checkout my-feature
  $ git publish

This creates the my-feature-v1 git tag.  Running git-publish again at a later
point will create tags with incrementing version numbers:

  my-feature-v1
  my-feature-v2
  my-feature-v3
  ...

To refer back to a previous version, simply check out that git tag.  This way a
record is kept of each patch revision that has been published.

=head3 Overriding the version number

The version number can be set manually.  This is handy when starting out with
git-publish on branches that were previously manually versioned:

  $ git checkout my-existing-feature
  $ git publish --number 7

This creates the my-existing-feature-v7 tag.

=head3 Overriding the branch name

By default git-publish refuses to create a revision for the 'master' branch.
Usually one works with so-called topic branches, one branch for each feature
under development.  Using the 'master' branch may indicate that one has
forgotten to switch onto the intended topic branch.  It is possible to override
the topic name and even publish on 'master':

  $ git checkout branch-a
  $ git publish --topic branch-b

This creates branch-b-v1 instead of branch-a-v1 and can be used to skip the
check for 'master'.

=head2 Tag messages

Tag messages have a summary (or subject line) and a description (or blurb).
When send email integration is used the summary is put into the cover letter
Subject: line while the description is put into the body.

When prompting for tag messages on v2, v3, or other incremental revisions, the
previous revision's tag message is used as the starting point.  This is handy
for updating the existing description and keeping a changelog of the difference
between revisions.

The L<git-config(1)> format.coverLetter value is honored.  The default 'auto'
value adds a cover letter if there is more than 1 patch.  The cover letter can
also be forced with 'true' or 'false'.

To insist on creating a tag message:

  $ git publish --message

To refrain from creating a tag message:

  $ git publish --no-message

For convenience these options are also available as --cover-letter and
--no-cover-letter just like in L<git-format-patch(1)>.

=head3 Editing tag messages without publishing

Sometimes it is useful to edit the tag message before publishing.  This can be
used to note down changelog entries as you prepare the next version of a patch
series.

To edit the tag message without publishing:

  $ git publish --edit

This does not tag a new version.  Instead a -staging tag will be created and
the tag message will be picked up when you publish next time.  For example, if
you on branch my-feature and have already published v1 and v2, editing the tag
message will create the tag my-feature-staging.  When you publish next time the
my-feature-v3 tag will be created and use the tag message you staged earlier.

=head2 Setting the base branch

git-publish detects whether the branch contains a single commit or multiple
commits by comparing against a base branch ('master' by default).  You can
specify the base branch like this:

  $ git publish --base my-parent

Most of the time 'master' works fine.

It is also possible to persist which base branch to use.  This is useful if you
find yourself often specifying a base branch manually.  It can be done globally
for all branches in a reposity or just for a specific branch:

  $ git config git-publish.base origin/master # for all branches
  $ git config branch.foo.gitpublishbase origin/master # for one branch

=head2 Send email integration

git-publish can call L<git-send-email(1)> after creating a git tag.  If there is a
tag message it will be used as the cover letter.  Email can be sent like this:

  $ git publish --to patches@example.org \
                --cc alex@example.org --cc bob@example.org

After the git tag has been created as usual, commits on top of the base branch
are sent as the patch series.  The base branch defaults to 'master' and can be
set manually with --base.

The L<git-send-email(1)> aliasesfile feature works since the email addresses are
passed through without interpretation by git-publish.

Patch emails can be manually edited before being sent, these changes only
affect outgoing emails and are not stored permanently:

  $ git publish --to patches@example.org --annotate

git-publish can background itself so patch emails can be inspected from the
shell:

  $ git publish --to patches@example.org --inspect-emails

Signed-off-by: <self> lines can be applied to patch emails, only outgoing
emails are affected and not the local git commits:

  $ git publish --to patches@example.org --signoff

Sending [RFC] series instead of regular [PATCH] series can be done by
customizing the Subject: line:

  $ git publish --to patches@example.org --subject-prefix RFC

Using this way, specified "--subject-prefix" will be stored as
per-branch subject prefix, and will be used for the next git-publish
as well.

One can override the stored per-branch subject prefix by providing the
--subject-prefix parameter again, or to clear it permanently, we can use:

  $ git publish --clear-subject-prefix

git-publish remembers the list of addresses CC'd on previous revisions
of a patchset by default. To clear that internal list:

  $ git publish --to patches@example.org --forget-cc --cc new@example.org

In the above example, new@example.org will be saved to the internal list
for next time.

CC addresses accumulate and cascade. Following the previous example, if we
want to send a new version to both new@example.org and old@example.org:

  $ git-publish --cc old@example.org

To temporarily ignore any CCs in the profile or saved list, and send only to
the addresses specified on the CLI:

  $ git-publish --override-cc --cc onetime@example.org --to patches@example.org

CCs specified alongside --override-cc are not remembered for future revisions.

  $ git publish --to patches@example.org --notes

To include git-notes into a patch.

One can attach notes to a commit with `git notes add <object>`. For having the
notes "following" a commit on rebase operation, you can use
`git config notes.rewriteRef refs/notes/commits`. For more information,
give a look at L<git-notes(1)>.

=head2 Creating profiles for frequently used projects

Instead of providing command-line options each time a patch series is
published, the options can be stored in L<git-config(1)> files:

  $ cat >>.git/config
  [gitpublishprofile "example"]
  prefix = PATCH for-example
  to = patches@example.org
  cc = maintainer1@example.org
  cc = maintainer2@example.org
  ^D
  $ git checkout first-feature
  $ git publish --profile example
  $ git checkout second-feature
  $ git publish --profile example

The "example" profile is equivalent to the following command-line:

  $ git publish --subject-prefix 'PATCH for-example' --to patches@example.org --cc maintainer1@example.org --cc maintainer2@example.org

If command-line options are given together with a profile, then the
command-line options take precedence.

The following profile options are available:

  [gitpublishprofile "example"]
  base = v2.1.0               # same as --base
  remote = origin             # used if branch.<branch-name>.remote not set
  prefix = PATCH              # same as --patch
  to = patches@example.org    # same as --to
  cc = maintainer@example.org # same as --cc
  suppresscc = all            # same as --suppress-cc
  message = true              # same as --message
  signoff = true              # same as --signoff
  inspect-emails = true       # same as --inspect-emails
  notes = true                # same as --notes

The special "default" profile name is active when no --profile command-line
option was given.  The default profile does not set any options but can be
extended in L<git-config(1)> files:

  $ cat >>.git/config
  [gitpublishprofile "default"]
  suppresscc = all            # do not auto-cc people

If a file named .gitpublish exists in the repository top-level directory, it is
automatically searched in addition to the L<git-config(1)> .git/config and
~/.gitconfig files.  Since the .gitpublish file can be committed into git, this
can be used to provide a default profile for branches that you expect to
repeatedly use as a base for new work.

=head2 Sending pull requests

git-publish can send signed pull requests.  Signed tags are pushed to a remote
git repository that must be readable by the person who will merge the pull
request.

Ensure that the branch has a default remote repository saved:

  $ git config branch.foo.remote my-public-repo

The remote must be accessible to the person receiving the pull request.
Normally the remote URI should be git:// or https://.  If the remote is
configured for ssh:// then L<git-config(1)> can be supplemented with a public url
and private pushurl.  This ensures that pull requests always use the public
URI:

  [remote "<name>"]
  url = https://myhost.com/repo.git
  pushurl = me@myhost.com:repo.git

Send a pull request:

  $ git publish --pull-request --to patches@example.org --annotate

=head1 CONFIGURATION

There are three possible levels of configuration with the following order of precedence:

=over 4

=item 1. Per-branch options only apply to a specific branch.

=item 2. Per-profile options apply when the profile is enabled with B<--profile>.

=item 3. Global options apply in all cases.

=back

The following configuration options are available:

=over 4

=item B<branch.BRANCHNAME.gitpublishbase>

=item B<gitpublishprofile.PROFILENAME.base>

=item B<git-publish.base>

Same as the B<--base> option.

=item B<branch.BRANCHNAME.gitpublishto>

=item B<gitpublishprofile.PROFILENAME.to>

Same as the B<--to> option.

=item B<branch.BRANCHNAME.gitpublishcc>

=item B<gitpublishprofile.PROFILENAME.cc>

Same as the B<--cc> option.

=item B<branch.BRANCHNAME.gitpublishcccmd>

=item B<gitpublishprofile.PROFILENAME.gitpublishcccmd>

Same as the B<--cc-cmd> option.

=item B<gitpublishprofile.PROFILENAME.remote>

The remote where the pull request tag will be pushed.

=item B<gitpublishprofile.PROFILENAME.message>

Same as the B<--message> option.

=item B<branch.BRANCHNAME.gitpublishprefix>

=item B<gitpublishprofile.PROFILENAME.prefix>

Same as the B<--subject-prefix> option.

=item B<gitpublishprofile.PROFILENAME.suppresscc>

Same as the B<--suppress-cc> option.

=item B<gitpublishprofile.PROFILENAME.signoff>

Same as the B<--signoff> option.

=item B<gitpublishprofile.PROFILENAME.inspect-emails>

Same as the B<--inspect-emails> option.

=item B<gitpublishprofile.PROFILENAME.notes>

Same as the B<--notes> option.

=back

=head1 HOOKS

git-publish supports the L<githooks(5)> mechanism for running user scripts at
important points during the workflow.  The script can influence the outcome of
the operation, for example, by rejecting a patch series that is about to be
sent out.

Available hooks include:

=over 4

=item B<pre-publish-send-email>

Invoked before L<git-send-email(1)>.  Takes the path to the patches directory
as an argument.  If the exit code is non-zero, the series will not be sent.

=item B<pre-publish-tag>

Invoked before creating the -staging tag on current branch.  Takes one argument
which refers to the base commit or branch.  If the exit code is non-zero,
git-publish will abort.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<git-format-patch(1)>, L<git-send-email(1)>, L<git-config(1)>, L<git-notes(1)>, L<githooks(5)>

=head1 AUTHOR

Stefan Hajnoczi L<mailto:stefanha@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2011-2018 Stefan Hajnoczi
